# deploy-maplandscape

Instructions to deploy *maplandscape* dashboard apps for exploring and analysing geospatial data in GeoPackage files / QFieldCloud data in a web browswer. It deploys the *maplandscape*c Shiny web app in a docker container using Shiny Proxy via a docker swarm. Traefik is used as a reverse proxy and load balancer and Let's Encrypt is used for TLS. The deployment architecture is based on this [resource](https://www.databentobox.com/2020/05/31/shinyproxy-with-docker-swarm/).

# Setup hosts

Setup host machines that will be members of the docker swarm. 

Clone the `deploy-maplandscape` respository onto the host that will serve as the manager node:

```
git clone https://github.com/livelihoods-and-landscapes/deploy-maplandscape.git
```

Move to the `deploy-maplandscape` directory:

```
cd deploy-maplandscape
```

Clone the maplandscape apps:

```
git clone https://github.com/livelihoods-and-landscapes/maplandscape.git

```

Make sure the config files are correctly configured. 

For maplandscape, the config file is located at:

```
./maplandscape/inst/app
```

## Configure PostGIS

Edit the `docker-compose.postgis.yml` file to specify the database name, username, and password.

## Configure Shiny Proxy

Configure the Shiny Proxy `application.yml` file in the `shiny-proxy` directory. 

In the `shiny-proxy/templates/assets/img` directory include jpg images associated with the card display for each app on the landing page. The image file should have the same name as the app id in the `application.yml` file. 

In `shiny-proxy/templates/assets/index.html` make any edits to the landing page UI as required. 

# Docker 

Install Docker (requires root or sudo privelages to run) following these [instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#install-using-the-repository). This needs to be repeated on each of the hosts. `./scripts/install-docker.sh` can be executed to install docker from the `deploy-maplandscape` directory:

```
./scripts/install-docker.sh
```

On the worker node, the `install-docker.sh` script can be copied to a `scripts` directory from the manager node host (the `scripts` directory can be created with `mkdir scripts` at the root directory):

```
scp -r "./scripts/install-docker.sh" root@<HOST IP>:/scripts
```

On the worker node, run to install docker: 
```
./scripts/install-docker.sh
```

# Docker Swarm 

## Configure Firewalls for Docker Swarm

### Manager Node

For the manager node in the swarm, execute `./scripts/create_firewalls_manager.sh` from the `deploy-maplandscape` directory.

If permissions on `create_firewalls_manager.sh` are denied:

```
chmod 700 ./scripts/create_firewalls_manager.sh
```

### Worker Node

Follow a similar process for worker nodes. If required, use `scp` to copy `create_firewalls_worker.sh` from the manager node to the worker node. 

```
scp -r `./scripts/create_firewalls_worker.sh` root@<HOST IP>:/scripts/
```
And, create the firewalls for the worker node:

```
./scripts/create_firewalls_worker.sh
```

If permissions on `create_firewalls_worker.sh` are denied:

```
chmod 700 ./scripts/create_firewalls_worker.sh
```

More information on configuring firewalls for Docker Swarm [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-firewall-with-ufw-on-ubuntu-16-04) and [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-configure-the-linux-firewall-for-docker-swarm-on-ubuntu-16-04).

## Initialize a Docker Swarm

On the manager node (i.e. ssh into the manager host machine), execute:

```
docker swarm init --advertise-addr <public ip>
```

Get the join token for manager and worker nodes. Store the tokens securely to add nodes to the swarm.

```
docker swarm join-token worker
docker swarm join-token manager
```

## Add a Worker Node

On the worker node (i.e. ssh into the worker host machine), execute:

```
docker swarm join \
  --token <TOKEN> \
  <IP:PORT>
```

The above command can be generated by executing `docker swarm join-token worker` on the manager node. 

## Node Labels

On the manager node, run `docker node ls` to display the swarm node IDs. 

Save the swarm node IDs as environment variables. 

First, save the node ID where traefik and shiny proxy will be deployed. This is the swarm manager node.

```
export NODE_ID="PASTE NODE ID FOR MANAGER NODE"
```

Next, save the node ID for the node where the postgis instance will be deployed. 

```
export NODE_DB_ID="PASTE NODE ID FOR POSTGIS NODE"
```

# Setup Maplandscape

From the `deploy-maplandscape` directory, run:

```
./scripts/deploy.sh
```

The following information will need to be provided when prompted:

* *traefik domain* - URL where the traefik dashboard will be accessible.
* *traefik username* - username to login to traefik dashboard (e.g. admin).
* *traefik password* - password to login to traefik dashboard.
* *let's encrypt email* - email address used to generate certificates from Let's Encrypt. 
* *PostGIS database name* - name of PostGIS database (this should match the config file of maplandscape).
* *PostGIS username* - PostGIS username (this should match the config file of maplandscape).
* *PostGIS password* - PostGIS password (this should match the config file of maplandscape).
* *app domain* - URL where maplandscape will be accessible. 

For the traefik and app domains, the DNS record at the domain registry needs to be set to the IP address of the node hosting traefik:

| Record | Name | IP |
|---|---|---|
| A | traefik.<your domain>| IP |

